# Documentation for the `Adamski` package.
  
----------------------------------------------------------------
 
 *Adamski -- A SAS package of toolkit for CDISC ADaM creation* 
  
----------------------------------------------------------------
 
### Version information:
  
- Package: Adamski
- Version: 0.0.1
- Generated: 2025-10-14T21:47:33
- Author(s): [Yutaka Morioka],[Hiroki Yamanobe],[Ryo Nakaya],[Sharad Shhetri]
- Maintainer(s): [Yutaka Morioka],[Hiroki Yamanobe],[Ryo Nakaya],[Sharad Shhetri]
- License: Apache license 2.0
- File SHA256: `F*67EEC955A0FE3B67995C7BB9A673D804A154F39BC903A9EF3C594F0D9E95F26C` for this version
- Content SHA256: `C*FB28D5A0BA850481DDCD4EA93984CF72222AEBB97E6B2D9F5F164FBECABD010E` for this version
  
---
 
# The `Adamski` package, version: `0.0.1`;
  
---
 

##  Adamski
**A SAS package of toolkit for CDISC ADaM creation**
Let's build the spaceship [adamski] together!  
PharmaForest is looking for collaborators and contributors to join us on this exciting journey. If you're passionate  
about ADaM programming or want to help shape tools for the clinical data community, we'd love to have you onboard! ?

Inspired by the {admiral} package in R, Adamski aims to bring similar functionality to the SAS environment, while introducing original functions and macros.  
We strive to maintain consistency by keeping function (macro) and option names as close as possible to their R counterparts.  
However, some differences are inevitable due to the distinct nature of SAS and R.  
In addition, new functions and macros would be developed to extend the capabilities.  

**Please see notice.sas in additional contents(addcnt) in addition to license.sas**  

### Main Features
- %derive_vars_dy() : To calculate DY variables

### Usage
For more details, please visit https://github.com/PharmaForest/adamski]
---

  
---
 
  
---
 
Required SAS Components: 
  - Base SAS Software
  
---
 
  
---
 
Package contains additional content, run:  `%loadPackageAddCnt(Adamski)`  to load it
or look for the `adamski_AdditionalContent` directory in the `packages` fileref
localization (only if additional content was deployed during the installation process).
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------
 
*SAS package generated by SAS Package Framework, version `20250729`*
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------
 
# The `Adamski` package content
The `Adamski` package consists of the following content:
 
1. [`%derive_vars_dy()` macro ](#derivevarsdy-macro-1 )
  
 
2. [License note](#license)
  
---
 
## `%derive_vars_dy()` macro <a name="derivevarsdy-macro-1"></a> ######

### Macro:
    %derive_vars_dy  

### Purpose:
    Generates study day (`DY`) variables from given date variables using a specified reference date (e.g., `TRTSDT`).  

### Parameters:  

 - `reference_date` (required)	: Reference date variable (e.g., `TRTSDT`) used as Day 1  

 - `source_vars` (required)		: Space-separated list of source date variables(--DT) for which DY variables will be derived.

### Sample code:

~~~sas
%derive_vars_dy(  
  reference_date = TRTSDT,  
  source_vars     = AESTDT AEENDT  
)
~~~

### Note:

- Parameter `dataset` in {admiral} is not defined taking into account how the macro in SAS is used.  

- Parameter `source_vars` only accepts date variable while {admiral} accepts datetime variable as well.  
  In general, it is thought date variables are created before creating day variables.

### URL:

https://github.com/PharmaForest/adamski

---

Author:                 Ryo Nakaya
Latest udpate Date: 2025-10-14

---

  
---
 
  
---
 
# License <a name="license"></a> ######
 
Copyright (c) [2025]  [Yutaka Morioka],[Hiroki Yamanobe],[Ryo Nakaya]
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
  
---
 
